Asia | Thu Nov 19, 2015 | 9:23am EST
Pay attention 007: In India, you can kill - but don't kiss
Actor Daniel Craig poses for photographers on the red carpet at the Mexican premiere of the new James Bond 007 film ''Spectre'' in Mexico City, November 2, 2015. REUTERS/Ginnette Riquelme
By Shilpa Jamkhandikar | MUMBAI
MUMBAI If the Indian censors have their way, James Bond can make liberal use of his licence to kill. But he'll have to cut back on the kissing -- by exactly half.
The latest installment of the 007 franchise, "Spectre", will be released on Friday with heavy cuts after censors deemed the romantic encounters between Daniel Craig, and co-stars Monica Belluci and Lea Seydoux, inappropriate for the viewing public&$&.The committee which was to certify the film thought some of the kissing scenes were too long," said a source familiar with the application to the censors, who asked Sony Pictures cut the kissing scenes by 50 percent&$&.The studio either had the choice to accept the cuts or apply for an A certificate, which significantly cuts down reach and exhibition&$&.
The Censor Board is controlled by India's nationalist government and has turned a disapproving eye on films with steamy sex scenes.
It is currently headed by Pahlaj Nihalani, a Bollywood producer who made a campaign video for Prime Minister Narendra Modi last year, and released another promotional video for him last week.
Its ruling has been panned by critics on social media, who accuse it of serving the government's conservative moral agenda, stifling freedom of expression. Nihalani could not be reached for comment.
Under Indian law, films with an A - or adult - certificate can't be shown on TV. India still accounts for a fraction of Hollywood's revenues, but franchises like James Bond and the Avengers can beat Bollywood's own productions at the box office&$&.50 Shades of Grey", the film based on E&-&L&-& James's erotic novel, was never released in India even after the studio cut every sex scene. The board rejected it on the basis that the language used in the film was inappropriate.
(Editing by Douglas Busvine and Sanjeev Miglani)
Next In Asia
Indonesia arrests militant planning bomb strike on Myanmar embassy
JAKARTA Police in Indonesia have arrested a suspected Islamist militant and seized a large quantity of bomb making material that he planned to use in attacks on government buildings and the Myanmar embassy in Jakarta next month, a police spokesman said.
U&-&N&-& close to sanctions deal to slash North Korea export earnings: diplomats
The U&-&N&-& Security Council's five veto powers are close to approving new sanctions on North Korea to cut the isolated state's earnings from exports by more than a quarter, principally by targeting its coal exports to China, diplomats said on Friday.
HONG KONG/SINGAPORE Beijing on Friday warned countries against maintaining military ties with Taiwan, after Singaporean armored troop carriers were seized en route from the island that Beijing regards as a breakaway province.
MORE FROM REUTERS
From Around the Web Promoted by Taboola
Trending Stories
