What does a group of Clinton supporters in deep-red Alaska look like?
2/2
REUTERS/Emily Flitter
ANCHORAGE – Here is what a early Hillary Clinton campaign volunteer meeting looks like in Alaska:
A narrow, sun-drenched backyard, a picnic table nestled between a shady tree and a chicken coop, a capsized canoe off to one side cradling a well of ice filled with cans of beer and soda, and 15 or so gung-ho Clinton supporters snacking on homemade barbecue fare on a weekday evening.
That was the scene at the home of Harry Need and his wife Leslie, who met in law school back in the Lower 48, in Oklahoma, but fell in love with Alaska and moved here several years ago. The Needs are doing what they can to help drum up support for the Democratic presidential front-runner in a state where the last Democrat to win the presidential contest was Lyndon B. Johnson.
Not only is the state a safe bet for Republican presidential candidates — offering a paltry three electoral votes, to boot — Alaskan voters are also deeply suspicious of outsiders and dismissive of candidates who don’t take the time to meet them in person. Clinton’s volunteer organizer Connor Shaw learned that right away when he found himself struggling to convince Alaskans he was cold-calling that he was actually present in the state, despite the Connecticut area code that showed up on Caller ID when he dialed using his personal cell phone.
But Thursday’s gathering was easy. The guests were already signed up to help Hillary. Besides the Needs and Shaw, the gathering included a leader of Alaska’s chapter of the National Organization for Women; an urban planner; a taxi driver and a precocious four-and-a-half-year-old named Finnegan.
“One of the parties does a really good job of getting in line when they’re told to,” Need said, slyly referring to Republicans, when asked what he and the other supporters saw as their most important job as volunteers for Clinton. “Here we are in a red state and we’re preparing for that already&=&. He added that supporters were planning to canvass Alaskans for votes and donations to the Clinton campaign.
Little planning took place at the barbecue. The group got together for a photo, and before leaving they added their names and email addresses to a list the campaign will use to organize volunteers. But mostly they chatted and joked and soaked up the golden nighttime sun.
Next In Front Row Washington
