December 5, 2016 — 4:50 AM EST
Italy's Post-Referendum Political, Banking Risks
Italian voters’ rejection of constitutional reforms threatens to delay or complicate Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA’s urgent effort to raise 5 billion euros ($5.3 billion) in capital from investors. Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said he will resign after the heavy defeat of the referendum, ushering in a period of political instability at a time when Italy’s banks are straining under 360 billion euros in soured loans.
1. Why does Monte Paschi need money?
The lender, deemed Europe’s weakest major bank in stress tests in July, was told by the European Central Bank to clean-up its balance sheet. The ECB requested the bank raise the funds needed to cover losses from a planned disposal of almost 28 billion euros of bad loans by the end of this year. Undermined by derivatives deals that hid losses, Monte Paschi has received 4 billion euros in taxpayer-funded bailouts and 8 billion euros from investors since 2009. Now it’s back again after more than a third of its loan book soured.
2. How might the referendum affect Monte Paschi’s plans?
It depends on how much uncertainty the vote unleashes. Investors had already priced in a narrow “No” vote, and they may bet that a caretaker government can continue Renzi’s reforms, such as streamlining Italy’s clunky bankruptcy process. It’s also possible the ECB will agree to give the bank more time, kicking the problem into next year.
3. How is the capital raising going so far?
The complex plan has three interlocking pieces: a debt-for-equity swap, a stock offering and the disposal of a pile of soured loans. In the debt swap, which ran through last week, bondholders agreed to exchange more than 1 billion euros of subordinated notes for shares, or almost a quarter of the 4.3 billion euros of debt subject to the offer, according to preliminary results released Friday by the Siena, Italy-based bank.
4. What comes next?
If banks managing the stock offering deem there’s enough demand, the sale could begin in as soon as this week. The amount Monte Paschi will need to raise will depend, critically, on how much it lined up ahead of time from major investors. Chief Executive Officer Marco Morelli has traveled far and wide seeking so-called anchor investors willing to take a big bet on the company’s turnaround. He visited Doha, fanning speculation he was soliciting an investment from the Qatar Investment Authority.
5. What about the disposal of doubtful loans?
Once the share offering is underway, a 27.7 billion-euro portfolio of bad loans will be moved off Monte Paschi’s balance sheet to a separate entity to be bundled into securities and sold. The stock offering is linked with the sale of soured debt, meaning one can’t happen without the other.
6. What happens if the capital raising fails?
The most important market news of the day.
Get our markets daily newsletter.
Sign Up
Your guide to the most important business stories of the day, every day.
You will now receive the Business newsletter
Politics
The latest political news, analysis, charts, and dispatches from Washington.
You will now receive the Politics newsletter
Technology
Insights into what you'll be paying for, downloading and plugging in tomorrow and 10 years from now.
You will now receive the Technology newsletter
Pursuits
What to eat, drink, wear and drive – in real life and your dreams.
You will now receive the Pursuits newsletter
Game Plan
The school, work and life hacks you need to get ahead.
You will now receive the Game Plan newsletter
Barring a delay, Monte Paschi would need help from the state. A bailout could prove unpopular because of how much taxpayer money the bank has already received. Under new European rules, it would also probably require shareholders and bondholders -- including individuals and pensioners -- to take losses. Italian Finance Minister Pier Carlo Padoan held discussions with the European Commission on how the government can help the lender without breaking regulations on state aid, Corriere della Sera reported Friday. A Finance Ministry spokesman declined to comment on the report.
7. Could Monte Paschi’s woes affect other Italian banks?
Monte Paschi has become a proxy for a banking system so if the market doubts it can complete its share sale there could be a knock-on effect for other lenders such as Banca Carige SpA, a Genoa-based lender under pressure by the European Central Bank to strengthen its balance sheet. Italy’s biggest bank, UniCredit SpA is considering a share sale of its own sometime soon. The Milan-based bank will hold an investor day on Dec. 13.
The Reference Shelf
