@JohnFollain More stories by John Follain
December 22, 2016, 3:04 PM EST
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA , the worlds oldest lender, abandoned plans to raise 5 billion euros($5.2 billion) from the market,making a state rescue likely.
Monte Paschi failed to lure sufficient demand from investors in a share sale that ended Thursday, the Siena-based bank said in a statement after the market closed. The bank said it was scrapping the entire capital plan, including the securitization and the debt-for-equity swap, the lender said without elaborating on what it will do next.
The failure of the banks recapitalization will force the bank to seek a state rescue in what would be the countrys biggest bank nationalization in decades, said people with knowledge of the matter.
The Italian cabinet may meet as early as Thursday evening to approve a bank decree that will include measures to cover any funds missing in Monte Paschis recapitalization, a senior official said,asking not to be identified before the decree is presented to cabinet.
Resorting to state funds will probably hit Monte Paschi bondholders, who could see their entire investments wiped out under European rules on bank bailouts. The shares have already dropped 88 percent this year and now value the bank at about 500 million euros.
The failure to keep Paschi private could further slow Italys stuttering efforts to revive a banking industry thats burdened with about 360 billion euros in troubled loans, dragging down the economy as lending is curtailed. A nationalization Monte Paschi could be followed by rescues for lenders including Veneto Banca and Banca Popolare di Vicenza as part of a 20 billion-euro government package.
Monte Paschi Chief Executive Officer Marco Morelli had crisscrossed the globe looking for investors to back the banks reorganization plan, which included a share sale, a debt-for-equity swap and the sale of 28 billion worth of soured loans.
Monte Paschi, which reported a loss of 1.15 billion euros in the third quarter, was told by the European Central Bank to clean its up balance sheet and bolster finances after it emerged as the most vulnerable lender in a European stress test in July.
The following is a summary of other Italian lenders facing pressure to shore up their finances and get rid of soured debt on their books.
*Banca Carige SpA : The ECB instructed the Genoa-based lender to step up efforts to reduce sour debt on its balance sheet, giving it until Feb. 28 to present a more aggressive proposal. The existing plan calls for cutting the total to 19.9 percent by 2020 from 27.8 percent in 2015. The bank, which is struggling to restore investor confidence after revising its 2012 and first-half 2013 accounts, posted a loss in the third quarter on falling revenue and higher provisions for bad loans.
*Banca Popolare di Vicenza SpA / Veneto Banca SpA : The rescued Italian lenders in merger talks may need as much as 2.5 billion euros of fresh capital to fulfill requests from the ECB, people with knowledge of the matter have said. The ECB said the pair should reduce bad loans by as much as 4 billion euros, increase liquidity buffers and make additional provisions for ongoing litigation, the people said. Atlante, the state-orchestrated fund which took over the banks earlier this year, on Wednesday said it will invest 938 million euros in further stock sales by the banks.
Four Good Banks : The four small domestic lenders rescued from collapse last year must be sold to comply with European regulators requests. Executives obtained an extension of Junes deadline as they struggle to reach a deal. The Bank of Italy may seek additional contributions from lenders to bolster the countrys resolution fund if the sale doesnt generate enough cash to repay creditors, people with knowledge of the matter have said.
Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.
