Rob Cox: Eat or be eaten is real Kraft calculus
2/2
By Rob Cox
The author is a Reuters Breakingviews columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.
Kraft shareholders must be a pretty satiated bunch. They awoke last Wednesday to discover theyd become partners with billionaire Warren Buffett and renowned Brazilian corporate fixers 3G, while merging with the worlds leading condiments maker, Heinz.
Thats not all. Kraft owners also learned they would soon receive a juicy cash payment and still own shares in a cheese-and-ketchup conglomerate that promises, simply by dint of combining, to squeeze out another $1.5 billion in extra earnings. So elated have Krafts owners been by the deal theyve bid up the stock up by nearly $26, or some 40 percent, perhaps imputing an extra premium to Buffetts and 3Gs wiles.
What if Kraft could have done better on its own, though? A trip down not-so-distant memory lane and a skip through the numbers suggest the Velveeta-maker could have bought Heinz two years ago when it was in play, spooning more of the combined value to its own shareholders.
Instead, it is ceding control and renting its fat-free balance sheet to sharper operators. While selling to a group that includes Buffetts Berkshire Hathaway confers a degree of cover to the Kraft boards decision, it raises questions about what sort of management public shareholders want from companies, particularly mature ones like Kraft.
None of this is to say that Kraft shareholders are getting a raw deal. They will own 49 percent of a company generating $29 billion in annual sales and 13 brands with sales of more than $500 million each. In addition, they will receive a special cash dividend of $16.50 a share, or a total of $10 billion.
The new company will be run by a management team associated with Brazilian private equity firm 3G, which has developed a track record for efficiently running giant consumer-goods companies. When Bernardo Hees, the Heinz chief executive who will be in charge of the whole smorgasbord, puts a target of $1.5 billion of cost cuts on the board, its a good bet he will hit  if not exceed  it.
And although they will take three years to fully trickle down to the bottom line, those anticipated savings are worth a lot to shareholders today. At Krafts 30 percent tax rate, their net present value would be worth as much as $10.5 billion, with Kraft shareholders receiving $5.1 billion of that through their nearly half stake.
Consider instead, however, if Kraft had bought Heinz when the company was in play two years ago. The Buffett-3G team paid just over $23 billion for Heinzs equity, a 20 percent premium to its share price, and assumed $4.5 billion of debt. Sweetening that wouldnt have been hard for Kraft.
As the Heinz deal shows, Kraft had significant cost savings to exploit. It also benefits from a far lower cost of capital than 3G, which raised $9.5 billion in high-yield debt to get the deal done and sold $8 billion of preference stock to Buffett. Its even possible that Kraft could have financed the bid and remained an investment-grade credit.
Imagine Kraft offered a 30 percent premium, or around $6 billion above Heinzs market value. That would have left $4.5 billion of net present value for its own shareholders to feast on. Its less than is implied by the current deal, using the same corporate finance arithmetic. It also, however, ignores that Heinzs new owners were able to melt away $1 billion of costs without another merger.
If Krafts managers, however, were even just half as good as 3G at slashing costs, they could have found another $500 million in savings from a Heinz deal. At the same 30 percent tax rate, that would have represented an extra $3.5 billion. When added to the rest, the sum would be $8 billion of total value. That compares to the $5.1 billion derived from 3Gs takeover of Heinz.
Theres another important distinction in this hypothetical scenario: Kraft shareholders would have retained control of their company. In the Heinz deal, Buffett-3G name six directors compared to five for Kraft. The new owners also install the chief executive and chairman. Whats more, a special dividend, like the one 3G is offering, could theoretically have been paid by Kraft management, too.
The theory is nice, but of course two years ago Kraft had only just separated itself from Mondelez, so the timing would have been awkward. The biggest assumption, though, is that Krafts management and board would have had the guts, wherewithal or skills to do to Heinz what 3G can, did and presumably will do again. Kraft boss John Cahill conceded last week that he and his team probably werent up to the task when he said that what we have not been thrilled about is some of our execution.
Krafts quandary is one that shareholders elsewhere have to consider. Do they want stewards who will safely manage their businesses and perhaps sell out in elegant deals like this one, conferring decent returns? Or would they prefer risk-takers like the gang at 3G, and higher returns? This food deal starkly and freshly poses the M&A conundrum of whether to eat or be eaten.
This story was corrected to say five Kraft, not Heinz, directors in 12th paragraph.
Next In Reuters Breakingviews
Facebook India row shows limit of tech favouritism
Regulators blocked the social networks plan to offer free limited internet to the poor. Ill-judged comments from Facebook director Marc Andreessen highlight the gulf between Silicon Valley and the wider world. Big tech groups can no longer expect a free pass for bold plans.
Twitter lacks love more than numbers in its flock
Users at the $10 bln social-media platform have topped out at about 320 mln. Getting 25 pct more dollars out of each in the fourth quarter than the third isnt bad. CEO Jack Dorsey wants a better user experience, but he also needs to turn more of his pricey R&D into revenue.
Anheuser rolls Asahi on middling beer brands
Though the $2.9 bln price tag is a bit lower than expected, the Japanese brewers acquisition of Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime from Mega-Beer clocks in at some 25 times probable EBIT. Its only justifiable under the demographic logic of the buyers shrinking home country.
MORE FROM REUTERS
From Around the Web Promoted by Taboola
Trending Stories
