US MLB | Wed Apr 22, 2015 | 1:01pm EDT
Cincinnati Reds - PlayerWatch
3B Todd Fraizer went 2-for-4 with his first career grand slam Tuesday, extending his hitting streak to five games. Frazier has a hit in 11 of his 14 games this season. The four RBIs matched his career high.
SS Zack Cozart hit two home runs Tuesday in Cincinnati's 16-10 victory over the Brewers. Cozart, who also homered Monday against Milwaukee, is off to a very good start in 2015: Over his past 10 games, he is batting .435 with four home runs and eight RBIs.
C Devin Mesoraco returned to the Reds on Tuesday after missing the previous two games for personal reasons. Mesoraco drew a pinch-hit walk in the seventh inning of Cincinnati's 16-10 victory over Milwaukee. It was his first action since April 12, when he sustained a hip injury.
RHP Johnny Cueto takes the mound Wednesday as the Reds look to clinch a series victory in Milwaukee. A 20-game winner a year ago, Cueto has gone at least seven innings in each of his three starts this season but has yet to earn his first victory. In 16 career starts against the Brewers, Cueto is 7-3 with a 3.06 ERA but 0-3 with a 4.89 ERA in six career starts at Miller Park.
Next In US MLB
Cleveland Indians - PlayerWatch
RHP Corey Kluber will make his third start of the World Series in Game 7 on Wednesday. In four postseason starts, Kluber is 4-1 with a 0.89 ERA. Kluber also started, and won, Games 1 and 4 of the Series, posting a 0.75 ERA in those starts. As was the case in Game 4, Kluber will make his Game 7 start on short rest. "I haven't found much of a difference yet in the way I feel when I go out there on three days' rest as opposed to four," he said. "The only difference is spending more time trying to r
Preview: Cubs at Indians
A longstanding drought will end for either the Chicago Cubs or Cleveland Indians on Wednesday night while the other team will be flooded with heartbreak. The visiting Cubs forced a decisive Game 7 with Tuesdays 9-3 victory and are aiming to win their first World Series title since 1908 while the Indians are trying to break a rut that dates back to 1948.
CLEVELAND -- The two major league teams with the longest World Series droughts battled through six games, winning three games apiece.
MORE FROM REUTERS
From Around the Web Promoted by Taboola
Trending Stories
